ONBOARDING.md, before:

# Onboarding Guide for Cypress Template Project

Welcome to the Cypress Template Project! This guide will help you set up your environment, run tests, and troubleshoot common issues.

## 1. Prerequisites
- Node.js (v22.x or v24.x recommended)
- npm (comes with Node.js)
- VS Code (recommended)
- Git

## 2. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ponfri/cypress_template.git
cd cypress_template
```

## 3. Install Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

## 4. Configure Environment Data
Edit `cypress.env.json` to set API URLs, test accounts, and other variables. Example:
```json
{
  "env": { "name": "dev" },
  "apiBaseUrl": { "dev": "http://localhost:3000/api" },
  "accounts": { "admin": { "username": "admin_user", "password": "admin_pass" } }
}
```

## 5. Run Tests
- **Interactive mode:**
  ```bash
  npx cypress open
  ```
- **Headless mode:**
  ```bash
  npx cypress run
  ```

## 6. Generate and View Reports
- **Mochawesome report:**
  - Run: `npm run run:report`
  - Open: [http://localhost:8080/mochawesome.html](http://localhost:8080/mochawesome.html)
- **Allure report:**
  - Run: `npm run allure:generate-serve`
  - Open: [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## 7. Troubleshooting
- **Missing dependencies:** Run `npm install` again.
- **Port already in use:** Use `npm run kill:port` to free up port 8080.
- **Tests not found:** Make sure your spec files are in `cypress/e2e/tests/` and use `.spec.ts` extension.
- **Environment variables not loaded:** Double-check your `cypress.env.json` format and values.
- **More help:** See [Environment Usage Instructions](ai_instructions/env_usage.md) and [Fixtures Documentation](ai_instructions/fixtures.md).

## 8. Useful Documentation
- [Custom Commands Documentation](ai_instructions/custom_commands.md)
- [Page Objects Documentation](ai_instructions/page_objects.md)
- [Environment Usage Instructions](ai_instructions/env_usage.md)
- [Fixtures Documentation](ai_instructions/fixtures.md)

## Example Spec & Page Object

To get started with writing tests and page objects, review these examples:
- [`cypress/e2e/tests/example.spec.ts`](cypress/e2e/tests/example.spec.ts): Example Cypress test spec
- [`cypress/e2e/pageObjects/ExamplePage.po.ts`](cypress/e2e/pageObjects/ExamplePage.po.ts): Example page object

These files show recommended patterns and comments for new contributors.

## Contribution Templates

To help maintainers and contributors, this project uses GitHub issue and pull request templates:
- **Bug Reports:** Fill out the bug report template for any problems you encounter.
- **Feature Requests:** Use the feature request template to propose new features or improvements.
- **Pull Requests:** Use the pull request template to describe your changes and confirm you followed project conventions.

Templates are located in `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/` and `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`.

---
For further help, contact the project maintainer or open an issue on GitHub.

Commit message:

Updated the documentation. Added instructions to start the server and the client.

ONBOARDING.md, after:

# Onboarding Guide for Cypress Template Project

Welcome to the Cypress Template Project! This guide will help you set up your environment, run tests, and troubleshoot common issues.

## 1. Prerequisites
- Node.js (v22.x or v24.x recommended)
- npm (comes with Node.js)
- VS Code (recommended)
- Git

## 2. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ponfri/cypress_template.git
cd cypress_template
```

## 3. Install Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

## 4. Configure Environment Data
Edit `cypress.env.json` to set API URLs, test accounts, and other variables. Example:
```json
{
  "env": { "name": "dev" },
  "apiBaseUrl": { "dev": "http://localhost:3000/api" },
  "accounts": { "admin": { "username": "admin_user", "password": "admin_pass" } }
}
```

## 5. Start the Server and Client
Before running the tests, make sure both the server and the client applications are running:

- **Start the server:**
  ```bash
  npm run server
  ```
- **Start the client:**
  ```bash
  npm run client
  ```

Wait until both are fully started and accessible (check their respective terminal outputs for successful startup messages).

## 6. Run Tests
- **Interactive mode:**
  ```bash
  npx cypress open
  ```
- **Headless mode:**
  ```bash
  npx cypress run
  ```

## 7. Generate and View Reports
- **Mochawesome report:**
  - Run: `npm run run:report`
  - Open: [http://localhost:8080/mochawesome.html](http://localhost:8080/mochawesome.html)
- **Allure report:**
  - Run: `npm run allure:generate-serve`
  - Open: [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## 8. Troubleshooting
- **Missing dependencies:** Run `npm install` again.
- **Port already in use:** Use `npm run kill:port` to free up port 8080.
- **Tests not found:** Make sure your spec files are in `cypress/e2e/tests/` and use `.spec.ts` extension.
- **Environment variables not loaded:** Double-check your `cypress.env.json` format and values.
- **More help:** See [Environment Usage Instructions](ai_instructions/env_usage.md) and [Fixtures Documentation](ai_instructions/fixtures.md).

## 9. Useful Documentation
- [Custom Commands Documentation](ai_instructions/custom_commands.md)
- [Page Objects Documentation](ai_instructions/page_objects.md)
- [Environment Usage Instructions](ai_instructions/env_usage.md)
- [Fixtures Documentation](ai_instructions/fixtures.md)

## Example Spec & Page Object

To get started with writing tests and page objects, review these examples:
- [`cypress/e2e/tests/example.spec.ts`](cypress/e2e/tests/example.spec.ts): Example Cypress test spec
- [`cypress/e2e/pageObjects/ExamplePage.po.ts`](cypress/e2e/pageObjects/ExamplePage.po.ts): Example page object

These files show recommended patterns and comments for new contributors.

## Contribution Templates

To help maintainers and contributors, this project uses GitHub issue and pull request templates:
- **Bug Reports:** Fill out the bug report template for any problems you encounter.
- **Feature Requests:** Use the feature request template to propose new features or improvements.
- **Pull Requests:** Use the pull request template to describe your changes and confirm you followed project conventions.

Templates are located in `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/` and `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`.

---
For further help, contact the project maintainer or open an issue on GitHub.
